well President Biden is due to arrive in
the region tomorrow he's expected to
meet the Israeli Prime Minister then
he'll travel to Aman Jordan's capital to
meet other key Regional leaders but the
Palestinian president Mahmud abas has
tonight cancelled after the Gaza blast
and Rishi sunak may also travel to the
Middle East in the coming days let's
talk to our North America editor Sarah
Smith who's on the line Sarah um
President Biden's plane I think was
already in the air uh uh while this
explosion and this blast took place how
does that change the dynamic of the
conversations he was going to have with
regional leaders
here it's made the situation much more
complicated now president B he's
actually due to leave the white house
any minute now and we'll be setting off
very shortly an Air Force One heading
for Tel Aviv and I mean this is an
extraordinary trip which was a very high
Stak scamble even before the news came
in of this Hospital bombing it's a visit
with two purposes really and both of
those two-fold missions got considerably
more difficult today firstly he wants to
go there to demonstrate what he calls
his Ironclad commitment to Israel and to
its right to defend itself now that is a
position that Joe Biden has had for well
over 50 years now but it is a position
that is much much more uncomfortable to
defend tonight than it was even just
this morning the other thing he wants to
try to achieve is to get Israel to ow
emergency humanitarian Aid into Gaza and
to put in place some kind of measures to
try to protect innocent civilian lives
that just looks a lot more difficult now
as well because you've got the American
president flying into a situation where
the Hamas leader says it's the fault of
the US that this Hospital bombing has
happened because America gives Israel
cover for its aggression he says as you
were reporting the Palestinian president
uh Mahmud abbas's can cancelled his
meeting with Joe Biden and then at the
same time Israel are going to ask him
for over $1 billion worth of emergency
military aid so he is arriving in a
situation that was already complex and
it is now considerably more volatile
before he even touches
down indeed okay Sarah thank you we're
going to go back to Jeremy Bowen now in
southern Israel uh Jeremy we're just
hearing from Sarah Smith um in
Washington about how all this
complicates the task that Joe Biden had
in trying to broker some kind of deal to
get Aid into Gaza um the magnitude of
this uh tragedy tonight how does that
complicate things on the ground do you
think when it comes to that part of what
he was trying to
do I think it's immensely complex I
think that anyway it was a gamble as
Sarah said had the President coming over
here normally presidents get on their
planes and turn up to sign agreements
when the agreements have already been
negotiated when they know what they're
going into Joe Biden didn't really know
what he was coming into and the
Americans weren't sure because the fast
moving uh nature of what was happening
before the attack on the hospital now by
this morning by the time he lands
assuming he goes ahead and takes off
well it's going to be even more complex
in Lebanon that calling hisbah are
calling for a day of Rage there will be
more demonstrations elsewhere those
countries which the Americans regard as
allies are condemning Israel uh and
there's and as for this business about
who actually did it maybe the Americans
will say that they have satellite
information maybe they're watching
what's going on with their you know very
advanced technology I mean one thing I
would say
was that it was judging by the video
that was posted and by the the level of
casualties and judging also by the fact
that the whole building appears to have
been destroyed it was a very powerful
missile now one thing will that will
have to be established in any
investigation even a really quick one
over the next 12 or 24 hours is whether
Palestinian Islamic Jihad who was
specifically mentioned by the Israelis
which is the number two group in uh
armed group in Gaza whether they had
missiles which had that much power in
them the missiles that have been hitting
here in ashalon cause pretty much minor
damage so these are questions which I
can't answer but which need to be
answered to get some clarity on this
because you know the sides are way way
apart and what's really significant I
think is that levels of hatred uh are
growing really
exponentially among people who are
involved in all of this and uh one
mission for President Biden when he
decided to come here was to try to stop
the whole thing escalating stop the
whole thing spreading and as he's even
preparing to get on his plane the risks
of that happening have increased
marketly Jeremy thank you Jeremy Bo in
there live in southern Israel President
Biden preparing to make what will be an
even more difficult Journey here to the
region uh than was the case a few hours
ago